cheesecake
cheeseburger
creamcheese
cheese
I whant a Cheeseburger
egg
wow
lipsum
bla bla bla...

#################################################

MENU
Sally's Baking Addiction logo
recipe search...
Classic Cheesecake Recipe
Posted on May 2, 2018 / posted in Cheesecake / 620 comments
THIS POST MAY CONTAIN AFFILIATE SALES LINKS. PLEASE SEE OUR FULL DISCLOSURE POLICY FOR DETAILS
TwitterFacebookPinterestYummlyEmail
Jump to Recipe
Look no further for a creamy and ultra smooth classic cheesecake recipe! Paired with a buttery graham cracker crust, no one can deny its simple decadence. For the best results, bake in a water bath.

Perfect cheesecake on a pink cake stand
Not Plain Cheesecake
As much as I love cheesecake, I’ve never published a classic cheesecake recipe. There’s always been peanut butter, sprinkles, blueberry swirls, Snickers cheesecake, pumpkin, lemon, red velvet, or Nutella. That’s a lot of cheesecake recipes without a single nod to where it all originates: classic cheesecake.

To me, classic cheesecake is creamy, silky, and smooth. My cheesecake recipe is not quite as dense as New York cheesecake, but boasts equal richness and is just as special. It’s thick, it’s velvety, and there’s no denying its decadence. When I imagine what Chandler and Rachel’s stolen cheesecake tastes like, it’s this!


While there’s a glaring absence of chunks, swirls, and sprinkles in this ivory crowned jewel, there’s nothing plain about her.

slice of cheesecake on a spatula

Preparing my cheesecake recipe is rather simple– it’s baking the cheesecake that could result in a flop. Many factors are at play like the springform pan leaking, the surface of the cheesecake cracking, under-baking, over-baking, etc. I have plenty of tricks that will help guarantee classic cheesecake perfection, including determining when the cheesecake is done and everything you need to know about a cheesecake water bath.

2 images of cream cheese blocks in a glass bowl and cheesecake filling in a glass stand mixer bowl

How to Make Classic Cheesecake
You only need a few basic staple ingredients for this cheesecake recipe.

Block cream cheese: Four 8-ounce blocks of full-fat cream cheese are the base of this cheesecake. That’s 2 pounds. Make sure you’re buying the blocks of cream cheese and not cream cheese spread. There’s no diets allowed in cheesecake, so don’t pick up the reduced fat variety!
Sugar: 1 cup. Not that much considering how many mouths you can feed with this dessert. Over-sweetened cheesecake is hardly cheesecake anymore. Using only 1 cup of sugar gives this cheesecake the opportunity to balance tangy and sweet, just as classic cheesecake should taste.
Sour cream: 1 cup. I recently tested a cheesecake recipe with 1 cup of heavy cream instead, but ended up sticking with my original (which can be found here with blueberry swirls!). I was curious about the heavy cream addition and figured it would yield a softer cheesecake bite. The cheesecake was soft, but lacked the stability and richness I wanted. It was almost too creamy. Sour cream is most definitely the right choice.
A little flavor: 1 teaspoon of pure vanilla extract and 2 of lemon juice. The lemon juice brightens up the cheesecake’s overall flavor and vanilla is always a good idea.
Eggs: 3 eggs are the final ingredient. You’ll beat the eggs in last, one at a time, until they are *just* incorporated. Do not overmix the batter once the eggs are added. This will whip air into the cheesecake batter, resulting in cheesecake cracking and deflating.
And as always, make sure all of the cheesecake batter ingredients are at room temperature so the batter remains smooth, even, and combines quickly. Beating cold ingredients together will result in a chunky over-beaten cheesecake batter, hardly the way we want to start!




How to Make a Graham Cracker Crust
Since classic is the keyword of the day, we’re sticking with cheesecake’s main squeeze: a graham cracker crust. I reduced the butter and granulated sugar from my original graham cracker crust recipe by 1 Tablespoon each. I find this crust remains a little more crunchy. Make sure you pack the crust in very tight and pre-bake it to help prevent any sogginess.

I like to use the bottom of a small measuring cup to pack the crust tightly into the springform pan. Speaking of, you’ll need a 9 or 10-inch springform pan. A springform pan has removable sides so you can safely release the cheesecake without having to flip the pan over or struggle to cut the cheesecake inside the pan. Springform pans can leak if you’re baking the cheesecake in a water bath (more on that below!), but this particular pan is reliable. I haven’t had any leaking issues.


2 images of pressing graham cracker crust into springform pan and spreading cheesecake filling on top of crust with a spatula
cheesecake pan wrapped in foil and placed in large pan with water
How to Make a Cheesecake Water Bath
I promise a water bath is nothing complicated. All you’re doing is placing the springform pan in a roasting pan, filling it with hot water, and baking. What’s the point, you ask? I actually wrote an entire post about a cheesecake water bath years ago. I figured it’s time for an update and a video tutorial, so here goes nothing!

Cheesecake loves a humid environment. The steam from the hot water will lift the cheesecake up slowly and evenly, reducing the risk of cracks on the surface. Additionally, this slow and even baking method helps prevent the cheesecake from sinking back down as it cools. Taking a few extra minutes to prepare a water bath for this cheesecake recipe is well worth it. I can’t say enough how valuable it is!

slice of cheesecake on a white plate with lemon curd topping
Cooling & Chilling Cheesecake
Another way to help prevent cheesecake cracks is to initially cool it inside the oven. You can see me do this in the video above. When the cheesecake is done, turn the oven off, crack open the oven door, and leave the cheesecake inside for 1 hour. A drastic and sudden change of temperature isn’t ideal for cheesecake– from hot oven to cool counter– so do your best to control the environment by leaving the cheesecake inside. Does this make sense?

After the cheesecake cools in the oven for 1 hour, place it on the counter to cool. After it’s cool, chill it in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours or even overnight. There’s no greater test to your willpower than those several hours you’re forced to wait as the cheesecake cools down and then chills in the refrigerator. But every minute is completely worth it when you take that first luscious bite.

Want to skip the baking and cooling process? Try my no-bake cheesecake instead.

overhead image of slices of cheesecake with various toppings
slice of cheesecake on a white plate with raspberry topping
4 Tips for Perfect Cheesecake
To summarize, here are some tricks I discussed:

Do not over-mix the cheesecake batter
Bake in a water bath
Leave cheesecake in the cooling oven for 1 hour
Cool completely at room temperature
Cheesecake Toppings
Enjoy your velvet-rich cheesecake as is or get a little fancy with a selection of toppings. I love cheesecake best with fruit, so I made a simple raspberry sauce. You can also top with homemade lemon curd, chocolate ganache, salted caramel, strawberry topping, or homemade whipped cream. Get creative or keep it simple. Either way, it’s going to impress. (And you’d totally eat it off the floor… Chandler and Rachel style.)

raspberry dessert sauce in a glass jar with a spoon
overhead image of slices of cheesecake on white plates with various toppings
How to Freeze Cheesecake
Cool the cheesecake on the counter before freezing. No need to chill it in the refrigerator
Freeze on springform pan: Remove the outer rim from the springform pan. Wrap the cheesecake with the bottom of the pan with a few layers of plastic wrap, then a final layer of aluminum foil.
Freeze without springform pan: After the cheesecake has completely cooled, run a sharp knife underneath the crust to release it from the bottom of the pan. Carefully slide it onto a parchment paper lined piece of cardboard or use a plate. Wrap it all in a few layers of plastic wrap, then a final layer of aluminum foil.
Freeze for up to 3 months, then thaw overnight in the refrigerator before serving.
Do not freeze cheesecake with any toppings. Add toppings when serving cheesecake.
whole cheesecake on a pink cake stand
Classic Cheesecake Recipe
★★★★★4.9 from 325 reviews
 Prep Time: 45 minutes  Cook Time: 1 hour  Total Time: 7 hours, 45 minutes  Yield: serves at least 12
 PRINT RECIPE
 PIN RECIPE
Description
Look no further for a creamy and ultra smooth classic cheesecake recipe! Paired with a buttery graham cracker crust, no one can deny its simple decadence. For the best results, bake in a water bath.


Ingredients
Graham Cracker Crust
1 and 1/2 cups (150g) graham cracker crumbs (about 10 full sheet graham crackers)
5 Tablespoons (70g) unsalted butter, melted
1/4 cup (50g) granulated sugar
Cheesecake
four 8-ounce blocks (904g) full-fat cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 cup (200g) granulated sugar
1 cup (240g) full-fat sour cream, at room temperature
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice (optional, but recommended)
3 large eggs, at room temperature
topping suggestions: salted caramel, lemon curd, strawberry topping, chocolate ganache, red wine chocolate ganache, fresh fruit, whipped cream, or raspberry sauce (recipe in notes)

Instructions
Adjust the oven rack to the lower-middle position and preheat oven to 350°F (177°C).
Make the crust: Using a food processor, pulse the graham crackers into crumbs. Pour into a medium bowl and stir in sugar and melted butter until combined. (You can also pulse it all together in the food processor.) Mixture will be sandy. Press firmly into the bottom and slightly up the sides of a 9-inch or 10-inch springform pan. No need to grease the pan first. I use the bottom of a measuring cup to pack the crust down tightly. Pre-bake for 8 minutes. Remove from the oven and place the hot pan on a large piece of aluminum foil. The foil will wrap around the pan for the water bath in step 4. Allow crust to slightly cool as you prepare the filling.
Make the filling: Using a handheld or stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, beat the cream cheese and granulated sugar together on medium-high speed in a large bowl until the mixture is smooth and creamy, about 2 minutes. Add the sour cream, vanilla extract, and lemon juice then beat until fully combined. On medium speed, add the eggs one at a time, beating after each addition until just blended. After the final egg is incorporated into the batter, stop mixing. To help prevent the cheesecake from deflating and cracking as it cools, avoid over-mixing the batter as best you can.

Prepare the simple water bath (see note): Watch my video tutorial above; the visual guide will assist you in this step! Boil a pot of water. You need 1 inch of water in your roasting pan for the water bath, so make sure you boil enough. I use an entire kettle of hot water. As the water is heating up, wrap the aluminum foil around the springform pan. Pour the cheesecake batter on top of the crust. Use a rubber spatula or spoon to smooth it into an even layer. Place the pan inside of a large roasting pan. Carefully pour the hot water inside of the pan and place in the oven. (Or you can place the roasting pan in the oven first, then pour the hot water in. Whichever is easier for you.)
(Note: if you notice the cheesecake browning too quickly on top, tent it with aluminum foil halfway through baking.) Bake cheesecake for 55-70 minutes or until the center is almost set. When it’s done, the center of the cheesecake will slightly wobble if you gently shake the pan. Turn the oven off and open the oven door slightly. Let the cheesecake sit in the oven in the water bath as it cools down for 1 hour. Remove from the oven and water bath, then cool cheesecake completely uncovered at room temperature. Then cover and refrigerate the cheesecake for at least 4 hours or overnight.
Use a knife to loosen the chilled cheesecake from the rim of the springform pan, then remove the rim. Using a clean sharp knife, cut into slices for serving. For neat slices, wipe the knife clean and dip into warm water between each slice.

Serve cheesecake with desired toppings. Cover and store leftover cheesecake in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Notes
Make Ahead Instructions: This cheesecake can be made the day before. It has to chill for quite some time before serving. See step 5. Another way to make this cheesecake ahead of time is to freeze it. Cheesecake can be frozen up to 3 months. See instructions in blog post above.
Fresh Raspberry Sauce: Combine 2 cups fresh or frozen raspberries (do not thaw if using frozen), 3 Tablespoons granulated sugar, and 1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice in a small saucepan over medium heat. Stir the mixture as it begins to cook, breaking up some of the raspberries as you stir. Once simmering, continue to stir and allow to simmer for 5 minutes. Remove the pan from heat and press through a fine mesh strainer to remove the seeds. Allow the thin raspberry sauce to cool completely before using. Store for 1-2 weeks in the refrigerator.
Water Bath: Some readers have baked cheesecakes with a large pan of hot water on the rack beneath the baking cheesecake. In this manner, the cheesecake does not bake directly in a roasting pan of water. This is a wonderful alternative if you do not own a large roasting pan or are nervous about your springform pan leaking. Simply place a large baking pan filled with 1 inch of hot water on the bottom rack of the oven.
Room Temperature Ingredients: Bring all cold ingredients to room temperature before beginning. Room temperature ingredients combine quickly and evenly, so you won’t risk over-mixing. Also, beating cold ingredients together will result in a chunky cheesecake batter, hardly the way you want to begin!
Non-US Readers: With the help of other non-US readers who do not have access to graham crackers, here is a basic crust recipe you can follow for a 9-inch springform pan. 250g digestive biscuits + 100g butter + no sugar. Grind the digestive biscuits into crumbs, melt the butter, and mix with the crumbs. Press into pan and pre-bake as directed in step 2. And from what I understand, spreadable cream cheese sold in a tub in countries outside of the US is a little different from the spreadable cream cheese in the US. It’s thicker, sturdier, and more solid and should be OK to make cheesecake. I have no experience with it, but this is what I’ve heard from other non-US readers.
Related Recipes
Amaretto chocolate chip cheesecake on a white cake stand
Amaretto Cheesecake
mini cheesecakes with whipped cream and cherries on top on a white plate
Mini Cheesecakes (in a Standard Muffin Pan)
individual no bake cheesecake jars with assorted toppings
No-Bake Cheesecake Jars
Slice of no bake cheesecake with a strawberry on top
Perfect No-Bake Cheesecake Recipe
620 Comments
Richard Cohen says: October 12, 2021 at 5:50 pm
I’ve only got 8 inch pans; could i use those? TIA!

Reply
Lexi @ Sally's Baking Addiction says: October 13, 2021 at 9:17 am
Hi Richard, there is too much batter for an 8 inch springform pan. You can make the recipe as written and use extra batter for some mini cheesecakes though!

Reply
Kel Awesome says: October 12, 2021 at 11:53 pm
I will never make another cheesecake again! This cheesecake is literally the best cheesecake I have ever eaten. It is so creamy, and it’s flavour is heavenly. Love the add of the lemon juice. The recipe was easy to follow and it could not have come out any better. Thank you so much for this recipe!!

★★★★★

Reply
Antonia Young says: October 14, 2021 at 8:30 pm
Hi Sally,
My name is Antonia
I would like to make this cheesecake recipe as a birthday celebration, but since I am not a good baker, I am concerned about what is the temperature.. I read the intire recipe directions and could not find it.
Thank you,
Antonia

Reply
Lexi @ Sally's Baking Addiction says: October 14, 2021 at 9:18 pm
Hi Antonia, see step 1 for temperature — 350°F (177°C). Hope you enjoy the cheesecake!

Reply
« Previous 1 … 13 14 15
Leave a Reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Recipe rating
☆ ☆ ☆ ☆ ☆
Comment 

Name (required)
 Email (will not be published) (required)
 Website
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.

With kitchen-tested quality recipes and step-by-step tutorials, my goal is to give you the confidence to bake and cook from scratch.

Sally's signature
Top 5 Recipes
Homemade Strawberry Cake
Super Moist Chocolate Cupcakes
Chewy Fudgy Brownies Recipe
Lemon Blueberry Layer Cake
Soft Chocolate Chip Cookies
Recipes You’ll Love

SELECT MONTH

SELECT CATEGORY
Sally's Baking Challenge logo
Sally's Baking Challenge
Join the community on the 1st of every month as we tackle a new challenge recipe. Review Sally's Baking Challenge FAQ page if you have any questions.

View More
Sally's Cookie Palooza logo
Sally's Cookie Palooza
A tradition since 2013, every December we countdown to Christmas with 10 new cookie recipes in a row!

View More
Sallys Pie Week logo
Sally's Pie Week
The first week of every November is all about Thanksgiving Pies.

View More
My Cookbooks
Sally's Cookbooks

About Sally
Welcome to my Kitchen!

I’m Sally, a cookbook author, photographer, and blogger. My goal is to give you the confidence and knowledge to cook and bake from scratch while providing quality recipes and plenty of pictures. Grab a cookie, take a seat, and have fun exploring! more about Sally

TOP RECIPES
Homemade Strawberry Cake Super Moist Chocolate Cupcakes Chewy Fudgy Brownies Recipe Lemon Blueberry Layer Cake Soft Chocolate Chip Cookies
SHOP
Sally’s Baking Addiction
Sally’s Candy Addiction
Sally’s Cookie Addiction
READ
Baking Tips
FAQ
MORE
About
Home
FOLLOW ME
Facebook
 
Pinterest
 
Youtube
 
Instagram
Copyright 2021 Sallys Baking Addiction • Website managed by SiteCare.com • Website Accessibility Statement • Privacy Policy • Disclosure Policy

×
HOME
RECIPES
COOKBOOKS
BAKING TIPS
SALLY’S COOKIE PALOOZA
SALLY’S BAKING CHALLENGE
ABOUT
 
 
 

×
AN ELITE CAFEMEDIA FOOD PUBLISHER
Save


link: https://sallysbakingaddiction.com/classic-cheesecake/